Samantha Hunter
11/29/2021

My opinion hasn’t changed about what I think a data scientist is and
what they do from mid-August. I still think data scientists are just
statisticians who like and are hopefully good at communicating with
people. I still think that. Learning a programming language is just
acquiring another tool to turn numbers into something meaningful. I
think the biggest perception change for me is that data science can be
more collaborative than I imagined. I knew R was open source so I feel
like I have a good idea of how to problem solve collaboratively, but I
was really impressed with Github’s version control to work on a group
project long-distance. The entire time I was worried I was going to
overwrite something important my partner did, but it never happened.

I’m really excited to continue working on the foundations we built in
this class. Hands down, I am most excited to explore APIs on my own. I
definitely got a bit lost in the sauce with the APIs as I was looking
for a data set for the final project and ended up just choosing a static
data set that I found interesting. Some other personal projects I think
I’d like to tackle is that I read quite a few in-depth investigative
journalism pieces and I would really like explore or mimic some of the
work that has already done to improve my skills. I think it would be
really interesting to try to turn something like long article into a
Shiny app. I would also probably poke around to see if I could figure
out what kind of analysis these journalists run; I just found out that
Propublica has a Github, but unfortunately it looks like they tend to
use Python so it may also be interesting to see how R differs from
Python. Because I also work in SAS at an internship, I think I want to
make a cheatsheet in RMarkdown in the style of a Tidyverse or Shiny
cheatsheet. Clearly I really like working in R and I really feel like my
world as a data scientist has just really opened up from taking this
course.

[R is just neat](../images/neat.png)

Finalyl, while I definitely think I will use Github to house all of
these hopeful-projects, I doubt I’ll keep up with Githubs blog. It may
be nice to have some sort of blog for myself where I reflect on
projects, I don’t really like the Github interface for the blog.
